# TECHNOLOGICA

Technologica is a mod for Minecraft which is currently under development.  As such, at this time the development team makes no guarantee of functionality. 

# CONTENT

The major content groups of Technologica can be broken down into the following categories:

* Agriculture
  * Botany
      * 37 new crops including 2 tall crops and 2 water crops.
      * New fertilizer item provides radius of growth on use.
  * Dendrology
    * 25 new trees including 14 fruit trees and 2 sap trees which can be found scattered in existing vanilla biomes or in new Technologica biomes.
    * Fruit trees have leaves which age over time, bearing fruit at the final stage of maturity.  Right-clicking mature fruit tree leaves will drop the fruit and reset the age.
    * Sap trees have logs which age over time.  Placing a tree tap on the side of a sap log will gradually decrease the age to zero and drop sap.
      * NOTE: SAP COLLECTION MECHANIC IN WORK     
    * Stripping logs now drops Mulch, which can be used on Dirt/Grass blocks to create a Mulch block.  This block decays over time, providing a radius of growth effect to ageable trees.
    * New trees have fully integrated wood products, from planks to boats.  
  * Zoology
    * 38 new "real" animals which can be found scattered in existing vanilla biomes or in new Technologica biomes.
    * 2 new monsters
* Minerals
  * 15 new minerals including 9 ores and 4 crystals.
    * NOTE: ADDITIONAL MINERALS TO BE ADDED AND ORE SPAWNING MECHANICS IN WORK
  * New minerals can be processed to create new chunks and ingots representing a complete periodic table of elemenents.
    * NOTE: ORE PROCESSING MECHANICS IN WORK 
* Fluids
  * 21 new fluids includings 11 gasses.
    * NOTE: GAS MECHANICS IN WORK 
* Machinery
  * Kinetic
    * New kinetic machinery can be used to speed up, automate, increase yield, and process otherwise un-processable materials.
    * Kinetic machinery requires kinetic power, comprised of Torque and RPM.  
      * Torque determines whether or not a machine is receiving enough kinetic power and how many machines can be run in parallel on the same kinetic power distribution system.
      * RPM determines how quickly a machine completes a process.
    * Kinetic power is distributed via a Line Shaft Pulley system.  
      * Use Line Shaft Hangers to support Line Shafts, and use Pulleys connected via Pulley Belts to transfer kinetic power between Line Shafts.
      * Pulleys come in 3 sizes which can be connected to increase RPM while decreasing Torque or vice versa.  Connecting matched sizes does not change RPM or Torque.
      * NOTE: THE LINE SHAFT PULLEY SYSTEM CONTAINS MANY INTRICATE DETAILS WHICH ARE NOT DESCRIBED HERE.  SEVERAL MECHANICS ARE IN WORK.
    * Kinetic power is generated by a variety of kinetic generators. 
  * Electric
    * Electric Motors convert electrical power to kinetic power.
    * Annunciators are configurable illuminated display used to provide information of the player's choosing.  
* Decorations
  * Display Cases will display items placed within by right-clicking with an item in hand. 
  * Chairs allow the player to sit.
  * Tables are purely for decoration.
    * NOTE: TABLE MECHANICS BEING EVALUATED FOR ADDITIONAL FUNCTIONALITY 
* Tools/Armor
  * Primitive tools allow the player to start the game if Disable Vanilla Log Harvesting is configured to be true.
  * Coconut Bazooka charges and fires a volley of low damage, high knockback coconut projectiles.
  * Dodgeball sends a chat message to all players that a player has been eliminated if hit.
  * Spear Gun fires a high speed harpoon when under water.  Hitting an entity will tether it to the player.
  * Space suit does nothing currently.
    * NOTE: SPACE SUIT MECHANICS BEING EVALUATED FOR ADDITIONAL FUNCTIONALITY 
  * Snorkel suit doubles the player's underwater air meter
  * Dive suit greatly increases the player's underwater air meter and allows the player to walk in water as though it is dry land.
  * Scuba suit greatly increases the player's underwater air meter and gives the player neutral buoyancy in water.
* Magic
  * 8 new magic trees with unique abilities.
* World
  * Biomes
    * 4 new biomes 
  * Dimensions
    * 5 new dimensions
* Gameplay
  * Configuration
    * Players can disable vanilla log harvesting mechanics, forcing them to use tools.
    * Players can disable vanilla plank crafting recipes, forcing them to use a saw and dropping the yield to 1.
  * Easter Eggs
    * Try fishing with a banana in your inventory...           

Using forge-1.18.1-39.0.79
